is it time to throw in the towel change
directions scrap your current business
model and go in a whole new direction or
do you just need to double down and have
patience one of the hardest things about
being an entrepreneur is the uncertainty
and in this episode of build your tribe
I'm going to help you walk through a
process to figure it out like what is
the next best step for you your business
and your brand so let's get to
it hey thanks for joining me my name is
shelene Johnson co-host of build your
tribe thanks so much for being here
today this is uh a really important
conversation especially for
entrepreneurs because so often we've
been conditioned to believe that we
can't quit it is because of your
tenacity your determination your belief
in yourself that you are in the place
that you're at like we're known to be
risk-takers and oftentimes that can be
confusing when we're looking at what
feels like Signs and signals yet in the
back of our mind we also might be
hearing well yeah but if you quit you'll
you'll never have that comeback story
you could quit too soon if you change
directions now you could lose momentum
like all of these things where you just
wish you had a crystal ball so you knew
what the right decision was and I'm here
to tell you there is no way to know with
100% certainty what the next right step
is but with all things if you walk
through the decision process slowly and
with a strategic process in place that
I'm going to share with you today you're
going to make a much more inform form
Med decision I always take a big sip of
water just so I have enough energy and
the enthusiasm to beg for a sub like I
would love it if you subbed to this
channel Brock and I post up episodes
every Tuesday and Thursday we spend a
lot of time doing that it's free so
think of subscribing to the channel and
clicking that notification Bell is like
it's like giving us a tip it's like
saying hey thanks I appreciate you it
doesn't cost you anything and we
certainly do appreciate it it helped
helps push these episodes out into the
algorithm all right enough bagging back
to the heart of the matter first I don't
want you to think of pivoting as
quitting I mean you're an entrepreneur
so your business your brand your journey
is always going to take different twists
and turns the tighter we hold on to one
specific outcome I think the the riskier
that is I I think that we put ourselves
in a position where we we put blinders
on and we don't want to see or hear some
of the warning signs that are sometimes
out there however I also have
encountered even just this week uh one
of my clients a student who frankly
pivots every single year and not in a
little way in a big way and I'm trying
to figure out how much of this is just a
self-sabotaging mentality or fear either
way with this strategic process I think
you're going to make a much better a
much more informed decision I'm going to
share with you seven different
principles to help you decide if in fact
it's time to make that change the first
of which is to ask ask yourself if
growth right now is stagnant or
declining in your business now you can
look specifically at your business but I
also think it's important to look at the
industry the people who are doing what
you do look at that and don't allow fear
like okay we were once making this much
money or we once had this amount of
growth or holding on to a time in the
past where you were making a lot more
money or the business was much more
successful don't allow that to dictate
what the future looks like you really do
have to look at things objectively and
say to yourself like okay are things
generally declining for everybody not
just us or is it just us because if it's
just you it might be a matter of
changing shifting your business model
number two a decline in customer demand
now I know this might seem very similar
to number one but it's it's different
actually because well I'm going to give
you an analogy when I was doing Fitness
infomercials when those launched back in
like 20 2004 5 6 7 8 like back in the
days of p9x do you remember p9x when
that aired on TV you when you purchase
it it came to you via DVD you got DVDs
of the workout you know what didn't
exist at that time
YouTube the package of DVDs was sold for
I think it was like
$200 and today that same type of
infomercial not exactly that same
infomercial but that same type of
programing like a a a workout program on
infomercial is sold for free you
literally companies can no longer charge
$200 why because there's so much more
Supply there's so much more free Supply
I.E YouTube and all the other apps all
the other competitors that drove the
pricing and the model all the way down
and then so many people got iPhones and
and they're on YouTube and Instagram and
Tik Tok and and they're creating all
their own videos and they're doing this
for free and and so there's so much
availability out there and so many other
people who are quote unquote Fitness
Experts that it really decreased
customer demand number three a shift in
the market this is a little bit more
complex than both those first two but
they're again awfully related when I say
a shift in the market like a shift in
the way people either want that
particular item or a shift in the way
that your competitors are delivering it
like there's a let me give you some
examples that's always easier to
understand in 2022 when chat gbt and
other AI platforms started to be
accessible to people like myself
entrepreneurs it it changed the market
it definitely changed the market for a
lot of copywriters it changed the market
for Freelancers and Consultants does
that mean that if I were a copywriter
for example who was writing blogs and at
a certain point I was able to charge you
know the peak price point right um does
that mean that I just have to double
down and keep charging that Pak price
point no for me it would be a shift in
my business model I would realize that
okay chbt can't replace me in fact I can
use chat GPT to get more output to my
clients and in essence I just have to
shift my business model to maybe shift
the way that I charge shift the way that
I'm operating my business because of
this shift in the market sometimes
there's a shift in the market because
your consumer is no longer interested or
they've aged out of something for
example I think about the fact that my
my parents live in a senior community
called The Villages and they're they're
Boomers that age group loves that like
in you know everybody lives in one small
community everyone's the same age all
these different activities I don't think
that my generation is going to be into
that I just don't I could be wrong but
that's a shift in the market mentality
that's a shift in the consumer mentality
another example of a shift in the
marketplace and the consumer interest I
keep using these Fitness examples but
remember when cycling Studios were the
hottest thing or little tiny boxing
Studios like all these specialty Fitness
Studios and that was really really
popular oh gosh all the way up until
about coid I think just before coid it
was starting to lose popularity but for
a while there people would spend and and
listen I'm not saying that people still
won't spend that but there's definitely
been a shift in the marketplace which is
why you've seen so many small boutique
gyms go out of business but there was a
period at which the peak had happened
and people were you know happy to pay
$50 for a single class now I think that
because the economy is starting to shift
that has created a change in the way
that consumers are spending their
disposable income and for $50 a month
they can get a big box gym where they
can take that yoga class where they can
also lift weights where they can also
have child care so it's looking at like
What's happen happening in the
marketplace and knowing that that
doesn't necessarily mean that you've got
to jump out but do you have
sustainability are you still at the top
and what changes or tweaks do you need
to make to sustain that success the
number four thing I think you need to
evaluate is your personal level of
exhaustion or energy if you will if your
mental health if your physical health is
being compromised by the toll your
business is taking on you that's a
really big one that you need to evaluate
I am not a fan of anyone trying to push
through burnout so does that mean you
need to quit it might mean you just take
a break done that ourselves there was a
time when we were launching a new
program it was called phase it up and in
order to do that in order to keep myself
in a healthy space I had to take a break
from another one of our businesses that
was smart success and in doing so it
gave me the bandwidth mentally
physically emotionally to be able to
launch a startup up now does that mean I
can never go back to Smart success no we
didn't sell it but we did put it on the
back burner we did put on Hiatus we did
put on Paw and you have to have faith
that that's more important than the
money right like because we could have
kept doing that we could have kept
offering smart success but at what cost
speaking of cost number five is
evaluating costs and margins do you see
that the margins are decreasing maybe
you find that with all of these
incredible fre tools online it's it's
easier than ever for you to to operate
and manage your business but the
consumer threshold for your price point
continues to drop if that's the case and
your margins are getting smaller and
smaller and smaller you got to look at
that and ask yourself is this an ongoing
Trend are we going to continue to Trend
downward number six is evaluating your
passion for it do you still love what
you do or does it feel like a chore do
you absolutely hate it do you feel like
what was once like your dream come true
your passion your purpose does it now
feel like a job if that's the case this
might be a good time to Pivot and number
seven and I think this is one that's
really important and it is this check in
with key people and oftentimes the
people that we forget to check in with
are our team members we don't want them
to know that we're even questioning the
future of our business and I think
that's a mistake I think that our
smartest I I know this is true for me
the smartest wisest most caring
thoughtful people are the people on my
team they know the business they
oftentimes see things that they they
maybe they didn't feel like they have
permission to tell you what they thought
you should be doing or how the business
could change your pivot or maybe they're
seeing what your competitor is doing and
you've been so busy in your business
that you haven't had time to look around
and notice other things that are
happening often times the people that
work for us the people that work with us
you know they don't want to offend you
they they don't want to tell you what
maybe is obvious to them and they think
it's obvious to you but it's not
sometimes we're like way too close to it
I think it's also very important to
check in with wise mentors and advisers
if you don't have those people in your
circle hire somebody I mean you can hire
a business coach just for a month to
evaluate help you evaluate what you need
to do next talk to your business
partners talk to your life Partners talk
to people whose opinion you really value
and especially those other entrepreneurs
who who they've got vision for the
future they've probably built other
businesses and if you don't have a
community of entrepreneurs around you
that is why you've got to be you've got
to plug yourself into a community and
this is not a well I guess it is this is
me talking about the amazing community
that we have with the marketing impact
Academy and I'm not trying to sell you
on it I'm just telling you that when you
are a part of a community you have
access to other entrepreneurs you just
don't otherwise have the ability to get
people's opinion in your real life you
know what I mean like not all of your
friends do what you do when you are part
of a community and I hope you are in one
um it's just so powerful to get people's
perspective who aren't in your industry
who can look at things from a distance
and see things perhaps that you're too
close to see those are your seven
strategic steps but I I do want you to
also consider how often our sunk Co like
have you heard of the sunk cost fallacy
the sunk cost fallacy refers to a
psychological condition like a it's a
thought process
wherein we aren't willing to give up or
quit on something because we've been
doing it for so long or because we've
already spent so much money on it and a
great example of this is when my husband
and I thought that we wanted to launch a
an app for one of our programs and I I
could ask him right now but I think we
spent hang on hey Brett how much money
do we spend on the um app before we
pulled the
plug uh in
total over $200,000 we had invested over
$200,000 and then we went through this
exact process the one I've just shared
with you and it was very clear to us
we've this is exhausting I don't have
any purpose for it I'm looking at the
changes in the market like all of
everything pointed to the word okay it's
time to Pivot it's time to just walk
away from this what held us there a
little bit longer than what we needed to
was the sunk cost fallacy our belief
that gosh we've spent so much time and
so much money doing this should we hold
on a little bit longer and I'm here to
tell you we made a difficult decision
but it was the right decision
recognizing when it's time to make a
pivot doesn't necessarily mean a
complete exit like I just shared with
you sometimes itj just means making a
change to your business model the way
that you're and what you're offering to
your clients and how you're charging
them and and what the customer
experience looks like so remember like
don't be quick don't be quick to quit
but don't be stubborn to Pivot I hope
this episode of build your tribe has
been helpful to you if it has I would
love to have you take a moment and
double check and make sure that you're
subscribed please click the like button
and let us know what you thought about
this episode and lastly you'll notice
that I pinned a comment about the pivot
below this video and I would love to get
your intake all right guys thanks so
much for listening it was my goal to be
brief to be bright to make it fun and
then be done we're done I'll see you
soon
[Music]
yeah